Blog post draft for the dirty bytes array to storage bug. (#183)
ethereum/solidity-blog: _posts/2022-06-15-dirty-bytes-array-to-storage-bug.md

---
layout: post
published: true
title: 'Bug when Copying Dirty Bytes Arrays to Storage'
date: '2022-06-15'
author: Solidity Team
category: Security Alerts
---

On July 1 2021, a bug in the Solidity code generator was found by differential fuzzing.
The bug causes the legacy code generation pipeline to generate code that
may write dirty values to storage when copying ``bytes`` arrays from ``calldata`` or ``memory``.

Initially, it was assumed that the dirty values in storage are only observable using inline
assembly. However, resizing the ``bytes`` arrays using an empty ``.push()`` without actually
writing values to it, can expose the dirty bytes without any use of inline assembly.

The bug was present in the initial implementation of ``bytes`` arrays, i.e. it has always
been present, but was still never exploited or reported externally.

Therefore, we assigned the bug a severity of "low".

## Which Contracts are Affected?

> Most copies of ``bytes`` arrays from ``memory`` or ``calldata`` to ``storage`` can be affected
> in the sense that they may write dirty values. Those dirty values in storage only become visible,
> if there are empty ``.push()``es to the ``bytes`` array (in older version also assignments to its
> ``.length`` fields) and the resulting elements are assumed to be zero without actually writing to them.

Reviewer: I'd flesh it out a bit:
```suggestion
Most copies of arrays from ``memory`` or ``calldata`` to ``storage`` can be affected
in the sense that they will include any padding bytes surrounding array elements.
Those dirty bytes are meant to be cleared before any operation that might be affected
by their presence so it normally does not pose a problem.
However, an empty ``.push()`` to a ``bytes`` array (or, in older versions, also an assignment of its
``.length`` field) assumes dirty bytes to either have never been written to or have been cleaned after previous use.
Such a ``.push()`` will result in the array length being incremented without actual cleanup and the
dirty bytes will become a part of the array.
```

Author: You can't really assume anything to be cleared in calldata...

Author: Generally, we don't assume them to be cleared - rather neither for memory nor calldata we can assume anything to be clear... the dirty values from there should just never have ended up in storage, since in storage we *do* assume that everything is clear... let me see if I can make this clear here...

Reviewer: What I meant was that the operation taking the value is responsible for cleaning it for its own use (without writing it back) and should not expect the value in calldata/memory/storage to be already cleaned. Maybe there's a better way to phrase it?

Reviewer: I still think that it's a bit terse but ok, let's proceed with what we have now.

For example, the following resulted in the newly ``.push()``ed array element in ``h()`` not to be zero:

```solidity
contract C {
  event ev(uint[] i0, uint);
  bytes s;
  constructor() {

>     emit ev(new uint[](2), 0); // or probably anything else leaving memory dirty in the right spot

Author: This is what the fuzzer came up with originally... it's not easy to specifically come up with solidity code that dirties memory just at the right place, so I just took it over :-). Here the array length 2 apparently ends up in the right spot.

date: '2022-06-15'
author: Solidity Team
category: Security Alerts
---

On July 1, 2021, a bug in the Solidity code generator was found by differential fuzzing.
The bug causes the legacy code generation pipeline to generate code that
may write dirty values to storage when copying ``bytes`` arrays from ``calldata`` or ``memory``.

Initially, it was assumed that the dirty values in storage are only observable using inline
assembly. However, resizing a ``bytes`` array using an empty ``.push()`` without actually
writing values to it, can expose the dirty bytes without any use of inline assembly.

The bug was already present in the initial implementation of ``bytes`` arrays in very early versions of the compiler.
Despite this, it was never exploited or reported externally, and therefore we assigned it a severity of "low".

## Which Contracts are Affected?

Most instances of copying ``bytes`` arrays from ``memory`` or ``calldata`` to ``storage`` can be affected
in the sense that they may write dirty values. Those dirty values in storage only become visible,
if there are empty ``.push()``es to the ``bytes`` array (in older version also assignments to its

> ``.length`` fields) and the resulting elements are assumed to be zero without actually writing to them.

Reviewer: Not sure if https://github.com/ethereum/solidity-blog/pull/183#discussion_r896065153 will make it but if not, then we should correct this separately:
```suggestion
``.length`` field) and the resulting elements are assumed to be zero without actually writing to them.
```

Author: Adding this for now, then I'll consider the other comment.
